you
this lecture is about the similarity
based approaches to text the classroom
in this lecture we're going to continue
the discussion of how to do a text
classroom in particular we're going to
cover a different kind of approaches
than generative models and that is
similarity based approaches so the
general idea of similarity based
clustering is to explicitly specify a
similarity function to measure the
similarity between two text objects now
this is in contrast with a generative
model where we implicitly define the
clustering bias by using a particular
objective function like a like her order
function the whole process is driven by
optimizing the like level but here we
explicitly provide a view of what we
think are similar and this is often very
useful because then it allows us to
inject any particular view of similarity
into the clustering program so once we
have a similarity function we can then
aim at optimally partitioning to
partitioning the data into clusters or
in the different groups and try to
maximize the info group of similarity
and minimize the intergroup similarity
that is to ensure the objects that are
put in the same group to be similar but
the objects that are putting in two
different groups to be not similar and
these are the general goals of
clustering and there's often a trade-off
between achieving both goals
now there are many different methods for
doing similarity based clustering in
general I think we can distinguish it
with strategies at high level one is to
progressively construct a hierarchy of
clusters and so this often leads to
hierarchical clustering and we can
further distinguish two ways to
construct a hierarchy depending on
whether we started with a collection to
divide the
the caffeine all started with individual
objects and gradually group them
together so one is bottom-up that can be
called a column or a deal where we
gradually a group of similar objects
into larger and larger clusters until we
group everything together the other is
top-down
or divisive in this case we gradually
partitioning the whole dataset into
smaller and smaller clusters the other
general strategy is to start with an
initial tentative castling and then
iteratively improve it and this often
leads to a flat clustering
one example is k-means so as I just said
there are many different cutting methods
available and a full coverage of all
these custom methods would be beyond the
scope of this course but here we're
going to talk about the two
representative methods in some detail
one is hierarchical a collaborative
clustering or HJC the other is k-means
so first let's look at a cone or a
hierarchical cluster in this case we're
keeping a similarity famishing cause to
measure similarity between two objects
and then we can gradually group of
similar objects together in a bottom-up
profession to form larger and larger
groups and they also form a hierarchy
and then we can stop when some stopping
criterion is bad it could be the some
number of clusters has been achieved or
the threshold for similarity has been
reached there are different variations
here and there mainly differ in the ways
to compute a group of similarity based
on the individual objects in gravity
so let's illustrate how can induce a
structure based on I just similarity so
start with all the texture objects and
we can then measure the similarity
between them of course based on the
provided similarity function and then we
can see which pair has the highest of
similarity and then just group them
together and then we're going to see
which pair is
the next one to go maybe these two now
have the highest of similarity and then
we can gradually group them together and
then every time we're going to pick the
highest of similarity similarity pairs
to group this will give us a binary
actually eventually to group everything
together now depending our applications
we can use the whole hierarchy as
structure for browsing for example or we
can choose a cut-off let's say come here
to get four clusters or we can use a
threshold to cut all we can cut at this
high level to get just the two clusters
so this is a general idea now if you
think about how to implement this
algorithm you'll realize that we have
everything specified except for how to
compute group similarity we are only
given the similarity function or two
objects but as we group groups together
we also need to assess the similarity
between two groups and there are also
different ways to do that and there are
the three popular methods are a single
link complete link and average link so
given two groups and the single link
algorithm is going to define the groups
in gravity as the similarity of the
closest repair of the two groups
complete link defines the similarity of
two groups as a similarity of the father
sister pair every link
defines the similarity as the average of
similarity of all the pairs of the two
groups so it's much easier to understand
these methods by illustrating them so
here are two groups g1 and g2 with some
objects in each group and we know how to
compute the similarity between two
objects but the question now is how can
we compute the similarity between the
two groups and then we can in general
base this on the similarities of the
objects in the two groups so in terms of
a single link and we're just looking at
the closest pair so in this case
these toolkit objects would define the
similarity of the two groups as long as
they're very close we're going to say
the two groups are very close so it's a
optimistic view of similarity the
complete link on the other hand where is
being some sense pessimistic and by
taking the similarity of the two father
disrepair as the similarity for the two
groups so we are going to make sure that
if the two groups are having a high
similarity then every pair of the two
the objects in the tool so we have fully
insured to have high similarity now
every link is in between so it takes the
average of all these pairs now these
different ways of computing group
similarities will lead to different
clustering algorithms and they will
generally give different results now so
it's useful to take a look at their
differences and to make a comparison our
first single link can be expected to
generate the loose crustless the reason
is because as long as two objects are
very similar in the two groups it would
bring the two groups together if you
think about this is similar to having
parties with people then it just means
two group of two groups of people would
be partying together as long as each
group but there is a person that is
well-connected with the other group so
the two leaders of the two groups can
have a good relationship with each other
and then they were bringing together the
two groups in this case the cluster is
roost because there is no guarantee that
other members of the two groups are
actually very close to each other
sometimes they may
very far away now in this case it's also
based on individual decisions so it
could be sensitive to outliers the
computer link is in the opposite
situation where we can expect with the
classes to be tight and it's also based
on individual decisions so it can be
sensitive to outliers again to continue
the analogy to having a party of people
then completely that would mean when two
groups come together they want to ensure
that even the even the people that are
unlikely to talk to each other would be
comfortable I was talking to each other
so ensure the whole cluster to be
coherent the everything of course is in
between and and group decision so it's
going to be insensitive to outliers now
in practice which one is the best well
this will depend on the application and
sometimes you need a loose counselors
and to aggressively and clustered
objects together then maybe signaling is
good
but other times you might need a tight
clusters then completely income I think
better but in general you have to
empirically evaluating these methods for
your application to know which one is
better
now next let's look at another example
of a method for similarity based
classroom in this case which is called
k-means constrain we will represent each
text object as a term vector and then
assume a similarity function defined on
two objects now we're gonna start with
some tentative clustering result by an
just as selecting a randomly selected
vectors as centroids of K clusters and
treat them as centers as if they they're
represented h.glenn the cluster so this
is this gives us the initial tentative
classroom and then we're going to
iterate over to improve it and the
process goes like this and once we have
these centralized aside we're going to
assign a factor to the cluster whose
sanctuary that is closest
to the current vector so basically we're
going to measure the distance between
this vector n each of the centroids and
see which one is closest to this one and
and then just put this class this object
are into that Cussler now this is to
have tentative assignment of objects
into clusters and we're going to
partition all the objects into K
clusters based on our tentative
clustering and centuries and then we're
going to recover and recompute the
century based on the allocated objects
in each cluster and this is to adjust
the centroid and then we can repeat this
process until the similarity based
objective function in this case it's
within clusters the sum of squares
converges and theoretically we can show
that this process actually is going to
minimize the within cluster sum of
squares where define objective function
given K clusters so it can be also shown
this process will converge to a local
minimum
I think about this process for a moment
it might remind you the en algorithm for
mixture model indeed this algorithm is
very similar to the EML wasn't for the
mixture model for clustering more
specifically we also initialize these
parameters in the EM algorithm so the
random mean in our initialization is
similar and then in the e mmoes you may
recall that we're going to repeat in
step and M step to improve our prime
minister machine in this case we're
going to improve the clustering without
iteratively by also doing two steps and
in fact the two steps are very similar
to EA malleson in that when we allocate
vector into one of the clusters based on
our tentative clustering it's very
similar to inferring the distribution
that has been used with generally the
document in the mixed model so it's an
essentially similar to is that also
what's the difference where all the
difference is
here we don't make a probabilistic on
location as in the case of Easter but
rather we make a choice we're gonna make
a call you know if this data point is
closest to the cluster - then we're
gonna say you are in costume so there's
no choice and we're not going to say you
are 70% a belonging to costume and so
we're not going to have a problem in a
day but we're going to just put one
object and do precisely one custom even
in step however we do a probability
occasion so we split to the counts and
we're not going to say exactly which
distribution has been used - to generate
a data point
now the next we're going to adjust to
the centroid and this is very similar to
any step where we really smooth the
parameters that's when we all have a
better estimate of the parameter so here
we have a better clustering without by
adjusting the centroid and note that the
centroid is adjustable based on the
average of the vectors in the cluster so
this is also similar to the m-step
where we do count poor together counter
and normalize them or the difference of
course is also because of the difference
in the is that and then we're not going
to consider probabilities when we count
the points in this case for K means
we're going to only count the objects as
allocated to this cluster and this this
is on a subset of data points but even
the EML was we increase for consider all
the data points based on probabilistic
allocations but in in nature they are
very similar and that's why it's also
maximizing a well-defined objective
function and it's guaranteed to convert
converted to a local minimum
so to summarize our discussion of
clustering methods we first discuss the
model-based approaches main in the
mixture model here we uses a impress the
similarity function to define the
clustering bias there is no explicit
defining similarity function the model
defines clustering bias
and the clustering structure is built
into a generative model that's why we
can use potentially a different model to
we have a different instruction complex
generative models can be used to
discover complex clustering structures
we did not talk about the pole but we
can easily design a generative model to
generate the hierarchical clusters we
can also use prior to further customize
clustering algorithm to for example
control the topic of one cluster or
multiple clusters however one
disadvantage of this approach is that
there's no easy way to direct or control
the similarity measure and sometimes we
want to do that but it's very hard to
inject such a special definition of
similarity into such a model we also
talked about similarity based approaches
these approaches are more flexible
directly specify similarity functions
but one potential disadvantage is that
they are object the function is not
always very clear the k-means algorithm
has a clearly defined the objective
function but it's also very similar to a
model-based approach the hierarchical
clustering algorithm on the other end is
is harder to to specify the objective
function so it's not clear what exactly
is being optimized both approaches can
generate the term clusters and document
clusters and term clusters can be in
general generated by representing each
term with some text content for example
take the context of each term as a
representation of each term as we have
done in paradigmatically relation
learning and then we can certainly cuss
the terms based on actually they are
textual representations of course term
clusters can be generated by using
generative models as well as we have
seen